Removed some dead/outdated links (#235)
w3f/polkadot-wiki: docs/polkadot/node/guides/validator-payout.md

# Validator Payout Mechanism Overview

## Payout Scheme

Validators are paid for authoring blocks on the relay chain and signing parachain blocks.  Validator payouts occur at the end of every era (on the Alexander testnet, this is approximately once per hour, although this may be modified on Kusama and the Polkadot mainnet). No matter how much stake is behind a validator (by the validator stash itself, as well as by nominators), all validators split the block authoring payout equally.

For example:

```
Validator Set Size (v): 4
Validator 1 Stake (v1): 18 DOTs
Validator 2 Stake (v2): 9 DOTs
Validator 3 Stake (v3): 8 DOTs
Validator 4 Stake (v4): 7 DOT
Payout (p): 8 DOTs

Payout for each validator (v1 - v4):
p / v = 8 / 4 = 2 DOTs
```

Note that this is different than most other proof-of-stake systems such as Cosmos.  As long as a validator is in the validator set, it does not matter how much stake is behind that particular validator, in terms of rewards.  Validator `v1`, with 18 DOTs staked, received the same reward (2 DOTs) in this era as `v4` who had only 7 DOTs staked.

> The initial goal of the Kusama network is to have 50 - 100 validators after the initial proof-of-authority phase.  Not all of these validators must be run by different entities (companies or people); in fact, it is often to your advantage to run multiple validators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The initial goal of the Kusama network is to have 50 - 100 validators after the initial proof-of-authority phase.  Not all of these validators must be run by different entities (companies or people); in fact, it may be to your advantage to run multiple validators.
```

I would avoid making a judgement on this until we see what goes down in the wild.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, this was part of the original rationale for the issue but you're right, I don't think it needs to be made explicit and Jack is fine with removing it as well.

Reviewer 2: Removed

## Running Multiple Validators

> It is possible for a single entity to run multiple validators.  It is explicitly encouraged by the protocol, as some examples will show.  Assuming you have enough DOTs, or enough stake nominates your validator, to ensure that your validators remain in the validator set, running multiple validators will often result in a higher return than running a single validator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible for a single entity to run multiple validators.  Examples will show that it sometimes makes good business sense to do so.  Assuming you have enough DOTs, or enough stake nominates your validator, to ensure that your validators remain in the validator set, running multiple validators will often result in a higher return than running a single validator.
```

I push back a bit on the idea that the protocol explicitly encourages single entities to run multiple validators. It encourages a validator set not controlled by massive token holders, ideally a more decentralized validator set. IMO encouraging a single entity to run more than one validator doesn't seem sustainable long term, although I acknowledge it sometimes makes good business sense. 

Devil's Advocate: Why doesn't a large stakeholder simply nominate their tokens to other validators? It would be less costs on them and easier management.

Reviewer 3: Then they do not get the commissions, so they will make materially less rewards while also entrusting someone else with their tokens. If you have a validator set-up then spinning up another instance is a marginal cost.

Reviewer 2: From a game-theoretical perspective, large stakeholders (large enough where splitting their stake to multiple validators allows all of the "baby validators" to remain in the validator set)  _are_ explicitly encouraged since it will mean increasing their share of the payout.  It also biases the system toward relatively equal stake between validators, as you want to stake just enough to ensure that your validator(s) stay(s) in the validator set.

Reviewer 2: I'd be happy to say something like "are encouraged under certain circumstances" because I guess it's not actually "explicit" _per se_.

Reviewer 2: Reworded to explain the benefits without actually saying that it is explicitly encouraged
